I'l start with books I've read somewhat recently and work backwards


Non-fiction


Entropy - Jeremy Rifkin
The Green New deal - Jeremy Rifkin
Anti-social - Andrew Marantz
Moonwalking with Einstein - Joshua Foer
Breath - James Nestor
Acting White - Stuart Buck
Eating Animals - Jonathan Saphron Foer
Hillbilly Elegy - JD Vance
Unblocked: How Blockchains will Change your business - Alison McCauley
Seven Brief Lessons on Physics - Carlo Rovelli
Cribsheet - Emily Oster


Fiction

The Bill Hodges Trilogy
God's Debris - Scott Adams


Not finished, but great and I revisit/continue often

The righteous Mind - Jonathan Haidt
The Art of Learning - Josh Waitzkin
Learning from the Germans - Susan Neiman
The Selfish Gene - Richard Dawkins
Six Easy Pieces - Richard Feynman
Against Empathy - Paul Bloom
Anit-fragile - Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
Skin in the Game - Nassim Nicholas Taleb


Influencial books I've read more than a few years ago

I have to put Ayn Rand in there.. 

The fountainhead - Ayn Rand
Atlas Shrugged - Ayn Rand

but a good one to read if you want to see how her "virtue of selfishness" manifested in American Politics

Ayn Rand Nation - Gary Weiss


I didn't read much as a kid, but I would go through occasional phases.

I loved the Dark Elf Trilogy
I loved Hatchet and most Gary Paulson
I loved Katherine Paterson and even interviewed her on the phone when I was in middle school.

When I was a freshman in college my education professor Dr. Judy Meloy gave me a copy of 

Ishmael - Daniel Quinn

I read the celestine prophesy and although it was fluffy badly written self help, I still think of the four ways people take energy

I went through a little self help phase. When I was 26 or so I read

Think and Grow Rich - Napoleon Hill
this is probably the grand father of all self help books. and i remember the 13th step being pretty trippy and cool.
imagine a board room of your favoirte thinkers.. then start engaging with them.

At one point in my early 30s I decided to pick up and read

Crime and Punishment - Dostoefsky

I also read Stephen King for the first time and gobled up a handful of his books.

Langaliers
The Stand
The Mist
Cell
Bill Hodges Trilogy

I weirdly liked cell so much its one of the few books i've read twice.

I've read a good amount of textbooks and technical papers. 


































